---
layout: post
title: think-stats-note-3 cdf
categories: [book]
tags: [probability, statistics, python]
---

Cumulative distribution functions
=================================

pmf paradox

data oversampled selection bias

Percentiles Rank
================

{% highlight python %}
def PercentileRank(scores, your_score):
	count = 0
	for score in scores:
		if score <= your_score:
			count += 1
	
	percentile_rank = 100.0 * count / len(scores)
	return percentile_rank
{% endhighlight %}

Percentiles
===========

{% highlight python %}
def Percentile(scores, percentile_rank):
	scores.sort()
	for score in scores:
		if PercentileRank(scores, score) >= percentile_rank:
			return score
{% endhighlight %}

Cumulative distribution functions
=================================

{% highlight python %}
def Cdf(t, x):
	count = 0.0
	for value in t:
		if value <= x:
			count += 1.0
	
	prob = count / len(t)
	return prob
{% endhighlight %}

Prob(x): Given a value x, computes the probability p = CDF(x).

Value(p): Given a probability p, computes the corresponding value, x; that is, the inverse CDF of p.

Conditional distributions
=========================

A conditional distribution is the distribution of a subset of the data which 
is selected according to a condition.

Random numbers
==============

CDFs are useful for generating random numbers with a given distribution.
Here’s how:
	Choose a random probability in the range 0–1.
	Use Cdf.Value to find the value in the distribution that corresponds
to the probability you chose.

resampling
==========

The process of generating a random sample from a distribution that was 
computed from a sample.

In Python, sampling with replacement can be implemented with
	random.random to choose a percentile rank
	random.choice to choose an element from a sequence. 

Sampling without replacement is provided by random.sample.

The numbers generated by random.random are supposed to be uniform between 0 and 1.

Summary statistics
==================

The median is just the 50th percentile.

The 25th and 75th percentiles are often used to check whether a distribution is symmetric.

Their difference, which is called the interquartile range, measures the spread.

